Improve and refactor documentation (#109)
nvaccess/addon-datastore: docs/submitters/submissionGuide.md

## Pre-requisites:
- Familiarity with GitHub
- Familiarity with Git, including working with branches.

## Set up
Fork the `addon-datastore` repository

## Create an add-on version file for submission
You can create this manually, or generate this from an add-on manifest file.

### Manual file creation
On a new branch, copy the `_template_addon_release.json` file. 
- Rename and move the file to `addons/<addonID>/<version>.json`
- `<addonID>` is the ID of the add-on. This should match the `name` field in the add-on manifest, e.g. "speechPlayer"
- `<version>` is the add-on version in the form: `Major.Minor.Patch` e.g. "2.4.1"

### Generating from an add-on manifest
1. Install requirements to python environment:
`pip install requests configobj`
1. Convert an add-on to a json file:
`python convertAddonManifest.py [addonId] [stable|beta|dev] [addonUrl]`
	- `addonID` is the ID of the add-on. This should match the `name` field in the add-on manifest, e.g. "speechPlayer"
	- `stable|beta|dev` are the channel options, choose one of these.
	- `addonUrl` is where the addon file is hosted.

## Filling out the template
Edit the manually created or auto-generated JSON file as required.

> ### addonId

Author: ```suggestion

### addonId
```

# Submission Guide

If an add-on author wishes to submit their add-on to be visible in this add-on store they will need to:
- Copy and fill out the metadata template
- Create a pull request to merge the branch to master of this repository.

## Pre-requisites:
- Familiarity with GitHub
- Familiarity with Git, including working with branches.

## Set up
Fork the `addon-datastore` repository

## Create an add-on version file for submission
You can create this manually, or generate this from an add-on manifest file.

### Manual file creation
On a new branch, copy the `_template_addon_release.json` file. 
- Rename and move the file to `addons/<addonID>/<version>.json`
- `<addonID>` is the ID of the add-on. This should match the `name` field in the add-on manifest, e.g. "speechPlayer"
- `<version>` is the add-on version in the form: `Major.Minor.Patch` e.g. "2.4.1"

### Generating from an add-on manifest
1. Install requirements to python environment:
`pip install requests configobj`

> 1. Convert an add-on to a json file:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Generate a JSON file from an add-on manifest
```

`python convertAddonManifest.py [addonId] [stable|beta|dev] [addonUrl]`
	- `addonID` is the ID of the add-on. This should match the `name` field in the add-on manifest, e.g. "speechPlayer"
	- `stable|beta|dev` are the channel options, choose one of these.
	- `addonUrl` is where the addon file is hosted.
1. Edit the auto-generated json file as required.

## Filling out the template

### addonId
The ID for the addon.
This should match the name field in the addon manifest and the folder name for the submission.

> The convention is a camelCaseName.

Author: Isn't a convention not required by definition? It's just usual practice.

Example: `easyAddonTech`

> 

Author: I think we want to encourage migration away from legacy add-on IDs where possible.
This would require updating dependencies such as the translation system registration and ikiwiki

### channel
Should be `"stable", "beta" or "dev"`.

> **Stable:** Offered to users of any compatible version of NVDA.

Author: I've generally updated the docs here.

**Beta**: Allows add-on authors to target a stable NVDA release and get feedback from early adopter users before publishing add-on as stable.
Offered to users of any compatible version of NVDA.

> **Dev**: Not offered to users of stable NVDA, only pre-release NVDA.

Author: I think the proposal in https://github.com/nvaccess/addon-datastore-transform/issues/15 isn't ideal.
As such I've updated the documentation here.

This includes alpha, beta, rc, try, or dev builds.
This channel can be used for developing add-ons against the newest unreleased additions to NVDA, or to stay up to date with compatibility breaking changes in an API breaking release cycle.

### addonVersionNumber
The version of the add-on, as a major-minor-patch dictionary.
Add-on versions are expected to be unique for the addonId,
meaning that a beta, stable and dev add-on version cannot share a version number.

> This is so there can be a unique ordering of newest to oldest.

Author: Switching over to using the beta channel would require authors to update the ikiwiki dependencies from `addonId-dev` to `addonId-beta`.

> This is so there can be a unique ordering of newest to oldest.

Author: add-on versions should be released in order, it would be unusual to release X.0.0 after X.0.1

The suggested convention is to increment the patch version number for dev versions,

> increment the minor version number for beta versions,

Author: The addon version name should match the major, minor, patch.

and increment the major version number for stable versions.

Example:
```json
{
	"major": 21,
	"minor": 6,
	"patch": 0
}
```

### addonVersionName
The addon version being released.
Must match the version in the addon manifest and the file name for the submission.

Example: `21.6.0`.

### displayName
The name that will be displayed in English for the addon.

Example: `"Easy Addon"`

### publisher

> The name of the individual, group, or company responsible for the addon.

Author: Should that decision be handled by the submitters/publishers/maintainers? I don't think we need to suggest how contributors handle the name of the publisher, it would be better to remain agnostic here.

Example: `"NV Access"`

### description
The English description of the addon that will be displayed for the addon.
	
Example: `"Makes doing XYZ easier"`

### homepage
Optional.
If the addon has a homepage where users can get more information about the addon, you can specify it here.

> Example: `"https://github.com/nvaccess/addon-datastore"`

Author: Could you explain the benefit of an real example here?
I think pointing to one might imply a convention on homepage design, which is definitely not the case.
Homepages can be anything e.g. GitHub readmes or personal websites.

### minNVDAVersion

> The addon will not work with versions of NVDA prior to this version.

Reviewer: I think we have already discussed this topic elsewhere but do no termember where.

Anyway, should we only put API-breaking releases here or any NVDA release is OK? If we should only put API-breaking release here, it should be clearly specified.

But IMO we should be able to put any version. Just to confirm...

Example:
```json
{
	"major": 2021,
	"minor": 1,
	"patch": 0
}
```

### lastTestedVersion
The add-on has been tested up to and including this version of NVDA.

Example:
```json
{
	"major": 2020,
	"minor": 4,
	"patch": 0
}
```

### URL
To allow directly downloading the *.nvda-addon file.

> The URL should remain valid indefinitely.

Reviewer: What happens if an URL is not available anymore? E.g. deleting a GitHub release by mistake.

From the add-on author point of view, I guess that this version should be revoked and a new should be made. But what if the author do not revoke it? May an add-on be revoked due to a permanently broken link (or a modified SHA)?

Maybe it's out of the scope for this first PR. If so, keep this remark for later work on a document dedicated to add-on revoking.

GitHub release URLs are recommended.

> Example: `"https://github.com/nvaccess/addon-datastore/releases/download/v0.1.0/myAddon.nvda-addon"`

Reviewer: Real example here:

```suggestion
Example: `"https://github.com/nvdaes/placeMarkers/releases/download/24.0/placeMarkers-24.0.nvda-addon"`
```

Author: what is the benefit of a real example here?

### sha256
The SHA256 checksum for the *.nvda-addon file.
To calculate a SHA256 sum on Windows, run the following from command prompt:

```cmd
certutil -hashfile <pathToAddonFile.nvda-addon> SHA256
```

Example: `"69D84CA8899800A5575CE31798293CD4FEBAB1D734A07C2E51E56A28E0DF8C82"`

### sourceURL
Allows reviewers to inspect the source code for common issues.

Example: `"https://github.com/nvaccess/addon-datastore/"`

### license
The short name of the license

Example: `"GPL v2"`

### licenseURL
Optional.
A URL to the full license for the addon.

Example: `"https://github.com/nvaccess/addon-datastore/license.MD"`

### Metadata format
For a full description of the schema see the
[_validate/addonVersion_schema.json file](https://github.com/nvaccess/addon-datastore-validation/blob/main/_validate/addonVersion_schema.json).
It includes an example of the file contents.

## Submitting your add-on version file
1. Create a PR to merge your branch into master on the `addon-datastore` repository
1. Automated checks to validate the submission will complete.
Refer to [addon-datastore-validation](https://github.com/nvaccess/addon-datastore-validation) for more information on automated checks.

> GitHub requires manual approval for the automated checks to run on an author's the first submission to the repository.

Reviewer: Slight rephrasing / typo:

```suggestion
GitHub requires manual approval for the automated checks to run on an author's first submission to the repository.
```

1. If the checks pass, the PR should be merged automatically.

> However, a human review process may be required.

Reviewer: When is human review required? Are you speaking of first author's submission as already written above? Or something else?
